---
hide_sidebar: true 
title: 'Unlock the Secrets of Football: How FIFA Ratings and Team Formations Can Predict Match Results'
date: 2023-04-14
permalink: /posts/2023/04/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Machine learning
  - Sports
  - Forecasting
---

If you're a football fan, you know how exciting it is to predict the outcome of a match. But with so many variables involved, it can be challenging to make accurate predictions. That's where a recent paper comes in, proposing a framework that uses FIFA ratings and team formations to predict match results. Not only does this framework accurately predict match outcomes, but it also provides insights into the factors that contribute to a team's success. In this blog, we'll explore this framework, its effectiveness, and how it can help football enthusiasts better understand the game.

"A framework of interpretable match results prediction in football with FIFA ratings and team formation" (Yeung et al., 2023)
=====

Football is a sport loved by millions of people worldwide. It is an exciting game that involves many variables, including player skill, team strategy, and luck. Predicting the outcome of a football match can be a daunting task, but a recent paper has proposed a framework that can accurately predict match results while also being interpretable. This framework uses FIFA ratings and team formation to predict the outcome of a match.

The authors of the paper proposed a framework that uses FIFA ratings as a proxy for player skill. FIFA ratings are widely used by football enthusiasts to evaluate player skill and can be easily obtained from the popular FIFA video game. The framework also uses team formation as a measure of team strategy. The authors argue that team formation can provide valuable insights into a team's strategy and how they plan to approach a match.

The authors demonstrated that their framework outperformed baseline models in predicting match outcomes. The framework not only accurately predicts the outcome of a match but also provides insights into the factors that contribute to a team's success. The authors also shown how the framework can be used to identify key players and strategic decisions that can impact the outcome of a match. For instance, the framework can help identify players who are critical to a team's success, optimal formation and transfer target to maximize the team's chances of winning.

Overall, the framework proposed in the paper provides a useful tool for football enthusiasts and analysts to better understand the intricacies of the sport. By using FIFA ratings and team formation, the framework can predict match outcomes while also providing valuable insights into the factors that contribute to a team's success. With this framework, football enthusiasts can gain a deeper understanding of the game and make more informed predictions about their favorite teams.

To better visualize the framework, we have included some figures below. These figures illustrate how the framework works and how it can be used to predict the outcome of a match. (TBA)


[Read the complete study here.](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0284318)
